---
layout: post
title:  "Book Review - Triggers"
date:   2019-02-08 20:00:00 -0700
categories: audible review
---
I just finished [Triggers: Creating Behavior That Lasts](https://www.amazon.ca/Triggers-Creating-Behavior-Lasts-Becoming-Person/dp/0804141231).
I enjoyed it and think its worth a read. It's hard to go through all the topics in the book but if I was to give a short summary
its that our environment changes and triggers bad behaviors. The only way to control our unruley environment
is by introducing structure.  We don't get better without structure.

One strategy the book discusses to create structure (really the only strategy in the book) is the idea of
daily questions. Asking ourselves daily questions can help us trigger better behavior. Questions trigger trying.
It's daily feedback about the progress towards our goals and it pushes us to accomplish something.

There's a important distinction about the kinds of question we ask ourselves. They need to be active question
as opposed to passive questions. For example a passive question might be "Do you have clear goals". An active
question would be "Did I do my best to set clear goals". Personal responsibility is a big theme in this book.
Passive questions can let us assign blame somewhere else, where as active questions help us take more personal
responsbility. We try to make changes to accomplish our goals when we personally take responsibility for it.

The author provides 6 daily questions he thinks everyone should ask themselves:

1. Did I do my best to set clear goals today?
2. Did I do my best to make progress toward my goals today?
3. Did I do my best to find meaning today?
4. Did I do my best to be happy today?
5. Did I do my best to build positive relationships today?
6. Did I do my best to be fully engaged today?

Here are some of my own:

7. Did I do my best to spend time with your kids and be a good dad?
8. Did I do my best to be a good husband?
9. Did I do my best to be a good son?
10. Did I make an effort to eat healthy today?
11. Did I make an effort to exercise in the last couple of days?
12. Did I make an effort to write today?
13. Did I do my best to read/listen to a book today?

He recommends scoring each question on a scale from 1 - 10 and keeping track of your progress over time. When you see numbers start to slip you
know you should start making an effort on them.

Overall I liked the message. I guess the real trick is making it part of your routine. The author even says he pays someone to
call him every day to ask him his questions. Im not going to be doing that. I'll try to keep it on a paper near my desk and see
how long I keep up this habit.

